# umeshrajput
Agra—city of love and Taj Agra, an old heritage city, where river Yamuna flows through the city and the city also finds mention in the epic Mahabharata as Agraban. And Ptolemy, the famous second century geographer, marked it as Agra on the world map. Agra or Agraban was founded in the year 1504 AD, by the Lodhi dynasty ruler Sikandar Lodhi, but the golden age of the city began with the advent of the Mughal rulers. It was then known as Akbarabad and remained the capital of the Mughal rulers under Akbar, Jahangir and Shah Jahan. Places to visit in Agra The seven wonders of the world Tajmahal, Agra Fort, Akbar’s Tomb (Sikandra), Akbar's dream capital (Fatehpur Sikri). Tajmahal was built by the grief stricken Emperor Shahjahan as a memorial to his beloved wife Arjumand Banu Begum entitled as Mumtaz Mahal. It has been awarded the world heritage site in 1986 by the UNESCO. Construction of this enchanting mausoleum began in 1631A.D on the banks of the river Yamuna. It took about 22 years to complete the whole premises with help of an estimated 20000 workers. Agra Fort Akbar built the most part of this world heritage monument in red sand stone. In eight years(1565-1573A.D.) the fort was ready, yet successive monarchs could not resist adding their insignia in the form of personalized palaces and mosque like moti Maszid, Diwan -E-Aam , Diwan-E-Khas, Jahangir's palace, Khas mahal , sheesh mahal and Musamman Burz(where Shahajahan was held captive ) etc. Sikandara It is the mausoleum of the Mughal Emperor Akbar. It represents his philosophy and secular outlook, combining the best of Hindu and Muslim architectures in a superlative fusion. It was completed in 1613A D, and is one of the well preserved monuments. Fathepur Sikri, a world heritage site, built by the Mughal Emperor Akbar who shifted his residence and court from Agra to Sikri, for a period of 13 years, from 1572-1585 AD to honour the Sufi saint Salim Chistee, who resided in a cavern on the ridge. Akbar reserved him very much as the saint had blessed him with a son named Salim in 1569A.D. The beautiful marble tomb of Sheikh Salim Chistee attracts thousands of people who seek blessings of the revered saint. The Mughals were great patrons of art and craft. Empress Noorjahan took personal interest and was an accomplished artist herself in Zari embroidery work. Agra's major handicraft products besides inlay work are leather, brassware, carpets, jewelery and embroidery work. Agra is also famous for Petha, Gazak, Dalmoth, bedai jaelbi, chatt and others mouth watering products. The main shopping area of the city are Sadar Bazar, Fatehabad Road, Raja ki Mandi, Sanjay place&amp; near Tajmahal complex etc. Apart from monuments there are various hotels in the city as per the budget of the travelers. Agra is the home to the five star property, three star property, budget, home stays and various other places to live during stay.  For more information or queries related to  AgraTour, Same day Tajtour and goldenTriangleTour contact us at : pannaholidays@gmail.com
